Add Clerk Express SDK docs (#1201)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/upgrade-guides/node-to-express.mdx

  npm install @clerk/express
  ```

  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
  yarn add @clerk/express
  ```

  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
  pnpm add @clerk/express
  ```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Migrate from `withAuth()`

If you previously used `withAuth()` to wrap your route handlers, you can now use [`getAuth()`](/docs/references/express/overview#get-auth) with the Express SDK. Pass the request object to `getAuth()` to retrieve the authentication state within the route handler.

`clerkMiddleware()` is required to be set in the middleware chain before this util is used, as shown in the following example.

```ts {{ del: [1, [10, 13]], ins: [2, 8, [14, 17]] }}
import { withAuth } from '@clerk/clerk-sdk-node'
import { clerkMiddleware, getAuth } from '@clerk/express'
import express from 'express'

const app = express()
const port = 3000

app.use(clerkMiddleware())

app.get(
  '/auth-state',
  withAuth((req, res) => res.json(req.auth)),
)
app.get('/auth-state', (req, res) => {
  const authState = getAuth(req)
  return res.json(authState)
})

app.listen(port, () => {
  console.log(`Server is running on http://localhost:${port}`)
})
```

## `requireAuth()` usage changes

> In the Node SDK, `requireAuth()` wrapped route handlers. With the Express SDK, you must instead pass `requireAuth` as a middleware function before your handler instead of wrapping your handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Node SDK, `requireAuth()` wrapped route handlers. With the Express SDK, you must instead pass `requireAuth` as a middleware function before your handler instead of wrapping your handler. Additionally, `requireAuth` will now redirect un-authenticated users to the sign in page, where previously it would emit an error.
```

```ts {{ del: [1, 4], ins: [2, 5] }}
import { requireAuth } from '@clerk/clerk-sdk-node'
import { requireAuth } from '@clerk/express'

app.get('/', requireAuth(handler))
app.get('/', requireAuth(), handler)
```

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

If you'd like to retain the previous behavior of `requireAuth` (emitting an error rather than redirecting), you can accomplish this as such:

```
const legacyRequireAuth = (req, res, next) => if (!req.auth) throw new Error('Unauthenticated')
app.get('/', legacyRequireAuth, handler)
```

You also want to make sure to catch and handle the error using an [error middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/error-handling.html) below.
````

})
```

## Migrate from `ClerkExpressRequireAuth`

To enforce strict authentication, replace your existing Node SDK strict middleware, [`ClerkExpressRequireAuth`](/docs/backend-requests/handling/nodejs), with the new Express SDK middleware, [`requireAuth`](/docs/references/express/overview#require-auth).

`requireAuth` is a middleware function that you can use to protect routes in your Express.js application. This function checks if the user is authenticated, and redirects to the configured sign in URl if they are not.

```ts {{ del: [1, [9, 11]], ins: [2, 3, [12, 14]] }}
import { ClerkExpressRequireAuth, RequireAuthProp, StrictAuthProp } from '@clerk/clerk-sdk-node'
import { clerkMiddleware, requireAuth } from '@clerk/express'
import express from 'express'

const app = express()
const port = 3000

// Define a protected route
app.get('/protected', ClerkExpressRequireAuth(), (req, res) => {
  res.send('This is a protected route')
})
app.get('/protected', requireAuth(), (req, res) => {
  res.send('This is a protected route')
})

app.listen(port, () => {
  console.log(`Server is running on http://localhost:${port}`)
})
```

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

If you'd like to retain the previous behavior of `ClerkExpressRequireAuth` (emitting an error rather than redirecting), you can accomplish this as such:

```
const legacyRequireAuth = (req, res, next) => if (!req.auth) throw new Error('Unauthenticated')
app.get('/', legacyRequireAuth, handler)
```

You also want to make sure to catch and handle the error using an [error middleware](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/error-handling.html) below.
````

To upgrade from the Clerk Node SDK to the Clerk Express SDK, uninstall the Node SDK by running the following command:

<CodeBlockTabs options={["npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
  npm uninstall @clerk/clerk-sdk-node
  ```

  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
  yarn remove @clerk/clerk-sdk-node
  ```

  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
  pnpm remove @clerk/clerk-sdk-node
  ```
</CodeBlockTabs>

Then, install the Express SDK by running the following command:

<CodeBlockTabs options={["npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
  npm install @clerk/express
  ```

  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
  yarn add @clerk/express
  ```

  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
  pnpm add @clerk/express
  ```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Migrate from `withAuth()`

If you previously used `withAuth()` to wrap your route handlers, you can now use [`getAuth()`](/docs/references/express/overview#get-auth) with the Express SDK. Pass the request object to `getAuth()` to retrieve the authentication state within the route handler.

`clerkMiddleware()` is required to be set in the middleware chain before this util is used, as shown in the following example.

> ```ts {{ del: [1, [10, 13]], ins: [2, 8, [14, 17]] }}

Reviewer: @bradlc and I had spoken about moving back to the diff syntax for this, just wanted to double check on whether this has happened or not yet. if it has, i think it would make this a little more maintainable to use the diff syntax!

Reviewer 2: Ahh, this was already using `diff` before I updated 😆 will revert

import { withAuth } from '@clerk/clerk-sdk-node'
import { clerkMiddleware, getAuth } from '@clerk/express'
import express from 'express'

const app = express()
const port = 3000

app.use(clerkMiddleware())

app.get(

>   '/path',

Reviewer: To make it equivalent, yea?

```suggestion
  '/auth-state',
```

  withAuth((req, res) => res.json(req.auth)),
)
app.get('/auth-state', (req, res) => {
  const authState = getAuth(req)
  return res.json(authState)
})

app.listen(port, () => {
  console.log(`Server is running on http://localhost:${port}`)
})
```

## `requireAuth()` usage changes

> In the Node SDK, `requireAuth()` wrapped route handlers. With the Express SDK, you must update `requireAuth()` to function as middleware instead of wrapping your handlers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Node SDK, `requireAuth()` wrapped route handlers. With the Express SDK, you must instead pass `requireAuth` as a middleware function before your handler instead of wrapping your handler.
```

```ts {{ del: [1, 7], ins: [2, 4, 5, 8] }}
import { requireAuth } from '@clerk/clerk-sdk-node'
import { requireAuth, clerkMiddleware } from '@clerk/express'

// clerkMiddleware is required to be set in the middleware chain before requireAuth is used
app.use(clerkMiddleware())

app.get('/', requireAuth(handler))
app.get('/', requireAuth, handler)
```

## Migrate from `ClerkExpressWithAuth`

> To replace your existing Node SDK lax middleware, [`ClerkExpressWithAuth()`](/docs/backend-requests/handling/nodejs), you need to write your own middleware that uses [`getAuth()`](/docs/references/express/overview#get-auth) to retrieve the auth state and then return an empty object if the user is not authenticated.

Reviewer: What does this lax middleware thing mean? I'm not sure readers are gonna make a lot of sense of this

Reviewer 2: I think the "lax" here meant strict middleware. Updated it to a more descriptive one
